Other considerations: 1 ) Due to the evidence that anti-depressant amitriptyline treatment reduces sleep latencyand night Waking and increases sleep efficiency, it may alsobe useful to treat insomnia, in Off-label conditions,ifno otherpharmacological options with robust scientific evidence areavailable。
Mechanism0action: MirtazapineIsa antidepressantantagonist Of presynaptic az-noradrenergic self-receptorsand a2-serotoninergic hetero-receptors, acting on the disin-hibition Of synaptic release Of noradrenaline and serotoninIn additiontO stimulating the releaseOf serotoninandnoradrenaline; mirtazapine isa1antagonist Of the SHTZAand H1 postsynaptic receptors, with effects associated withincreasedSlow-wave sleep andsedation, respectively:241Antidepressant doses range from 30 to G0 mglday, and thesedative effect is more pronounced with lower doses (7.5-15 mg); doses greater than 30 mg are less sedative due to thelargest noradrenergic effect. Its half-life ranges from 20 to40 hours and may cause residual sedation.241,242
Avallable presentations: 15,30,and 45 Ig Orodispersible and coated tablets。
Patlent assessment:No RCI hasassessed mlrtazapineSpecifically to treat insomnia With no comorbidities, Hencethere are nospecific recommendations for the evaluation 0patients With insomnia in treatment with mirtazapine。
BxpectedOutcomes:I3double-blind, Placebo-cOn-trolled RCT with healthy volunteers, the effects Of 7.5mgmirtazapine and 50 mg quetiapine were comparatively eval-uated, both in normal sleep and sleep disturbed by acousticstress (traffic noise) asamodel for transient insomnia.243UnderacousticStress,both mirtazapineand quetiapineincreased IST by half an hour and reduced the number OfWakes by 35-40% compared with placebo. While quetiapinespecifically increased the duration of stage N2, mirtazapinemainly increased stage N3. Individuals reported that bothmirtazapine and quetiapine facilitated sleeping and诬-proved sleep quality. Bothcaused daytime sleepinessand diminished sustained attention. 243 Studies With clinicalsamples Of depressed patients using mirtazapine show i-creased   sleep, reducedlatency;increasedIST,reducedWaking;increased   effciency;andincreasedSIOW-waveSleep. 244-246drugs
Drvg interactions, contraindications, Slde ettects: Mirtazapine is a substrate Of cytochrome enzymes p4501A2,206, and 3 A4 and weakly inhibits IA 2 and 3A4. Sedation isincreased When mirtazapine is used in association with otherCNS depressors. The combination of mirtazapine with otherantidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhib-itors Shouldbe avoideddueto the riskOf serotonergicsyndrome。Mirtazapine mayicreasetheappetite; raisetriglyceride cholesterol levels and liver enzymes, and causemouth,constipation,excessivesedation;dizziness,nightmares, Vivid dreams, and restlesssyndrome。Iryleg
Other considerations: 1 ) Considering small studies, particularly with evidence that antidepressant treatment withmirtazapine improves different sleep parameters in patients
withcomorbid insomnia;让 may alsobeuSefult0treatinsomnia in Off-label conditions, ifno other pharmacologicaloptions With robust scientific evidence are available. Long-elimination half-life can cause residual sleepiness with cog-nitive andmotor deficits. Avoid using it in patients withmetabolic disorders due to the potential risk Of weight gain。
Both typical and atypical antipsychotIcs difter regarding theaffnity in receptors and the predominance Of action in differ-ent pathways, such as the nigra-striatal, mesolimbic; meso-cortical,andtuberoinfundibularOnes。Thus,OneCanunderstand the Various profiles Of adverse effects suchaSsedation, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, dystonia,hyperprolactinemia, and so on, Which should be consideredWhen prescribing medications Of this class. Phenothiazines;such as chlorpromazine and levomepromazine; tend to Causesedationa5an adverse effect; but this is not sufficient toindicate them to treat insomnia, in the absence Of scientificevidencethat promotes this support.19,20,247 Consideringatypical antipsychotics, a 2023 meta-analysis evaluated eightcontrolled RCTs on the impact Of the use Of this class Of sleepdrugs during the treatment Of schizophrenia 247 The findingsindicate that among the antipsychotics, olanzapine; quetia-pine; risperidone; and ziprasidonewere associated with3Significant increase in insomnia symptoms; concluding thatclozapine is less associated With insomnia compared withother antipsychotics. 247Iguidelines for the treatment Ofinsomnia Without psychiatric comorbidities, few studies areaVailable assessing the use ofantipsychotics, limiting orienta-tions due to the scarcity Of data. 19,20,128 In recent years; therehas been an increase in studies assessing the effect Of quetia-pine on sleep and its possible role in the treatment of insom-nia,243,248-250 Which is Why We will discuss this medicationand its role in the treatment of insomnia below。
Available presentations: Quetiapine is available i theformOfimmediate-release2518,10018;20018,and300mg tabletsandextended-release 5018,20018,and300 mg tablets。
Patient assessment: Due to pharmacokinetic Character-istics, quetiapine could be indicated for different forms of
