Abbreviations: ACT-I,Acceptance and commitment therapy applied to insomnia; BZD, Benzodiazepines; CBT-, Cognitive-behavioral therapy appliedto insomnia; DORA,Dual orexin receptor antagonists; CABA, Camma-aminobutyric acid; MBCT-I, Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy applied toinsomnia; THC, Tetrahydrocannabinol。
Abbreviations: ACT-I, Acceptance and commitment therapy applied to insomnia; BZD, Benzodiazepines; CBT-I, Cognitive-behavioral therapy appliedto insomnia; DORA,Dual orexin receptor antagonists; CABA, Camma-aminobutyric acid; MBCT-I, Mindfulness-based cognitiveapplied toinsomnia; THC, Tetrahydrocannabinol.Intervention not included in the systematic reviews。bRecommendations voted in group for the Whole class, instead of individually for each intervention.CIncludes meditation and vipassana。dlncludes qigong, tai-chi, and yoga。therapy
Intervention not included in the systematic reviews
Recommendations voted in group for the Whole class, instead of individually for each interventionCIncludes meditation and vipassana。dIIncludes qigong, tai-chi,and yoga。
Recommendations voted in group for the Whole class, instead of individually for each intervention
Questionnalres andlOr sCales SuChas the following Can beused to help identify and assess the severity Of insomnia andassociated symptoms。
The assessment CanalsoUSe SCales and inventories toinvestigate symptoms of depression and anxiety, fatigue, andquality Of lifeincluding the Quality-of-Life Scale (SE-36)and Fatigue Severity Scale.20,26
Insomnia is Clinically diagnosed and, although PSG is the first-choice method to objectively assess Variousparameters,itsroutineUSeIsnot recommendedt0diagnose chronicinsomnia. 35 The following situations are indicated to performPSGto diagnose insomnia: (a) to exclude other sleep disorders;Suchas obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and periodic limbmovementsz7; (b) to objectively assess sleep-onset latency;total sleep time (TST), the number Of wakes; sleep efficiency,duration Of the stages, and Wake after sleep onset (WASO); (c)to assess cases Of insomnia refractory to adequate treatment;(d)to identify inadequate perceptionsOf sleep;Whichisrecurrent ipatients With insomnia.35 All these indicationscan be useful in the treatment withCBT-I21,27,28 and must beconsidered according to the clinical judgment of each case。sleep
PSGhas been recently pointedOuta5an indicationt0distinguish insomnia With (ISI6 hour ) and Without (IST>6 hour) short objective sleep duration. The importance Ofsuch differentiationis basedOn evidence that insomniaWith short objective sleep duration is a more severe insom-nia phenotype. It is associated with physiological changes,
