extending these results to this population。 3 ) Drug interactions between DORAs and antidepressants may occUI, andsuicide risk in serious patients has not been Well evaluated4) This class of hypnotic is contraindicated for the treatmentOf insomnia i patients With narcolepsy。
Melatoninergic receptor agonists, represented i Brazil byRamelteon,areAhapprovedClass forthe treatment0二insomnia, acting as a chronohypnotic。
Mechanism af action: They are sleep Promoters acting Onthe sleep-wake cycle by stimulating melatonin receptor (MT)MTI (attenuating the alert signal in the suprachiasmaticnucleus ) and the MT2 receptor (synchronizing the circadianclock). 183 Although there are no direct comparison studies;there is evidence from experimental data that ramelteonis 3184to 16 times more powerful than melatonin。
Available presentations: Ramelteon Is avallable i & ndoses。Ramelteonisabsorbed rapidly; therefore;its IOWbioavailability is due to the extensive first-pass metabolismwith cytochrome 0450 being the largest isoenzyme involvedi the liver metabolismOf RamelteonWhichis highlylipophilic and allegedly spread quickly to tissues includingCNS. Its half-life is1 to 2.6 hour。
Patient assessmhent: Ramelteon Can be indicated for adultpatients With sleep-onset insomnia。
Therapeutic planig: The recommended administrationis one tablet a day, 30 minutes before bedtime (consideringthat the patient should adopt a regular sleep pattern) Thetablet should not be broken, and there is no evidence Of theneed to adjust doses for specific cases。
Expected Outcomes: To date; therearetWOsystematicreviews185,186(one Of them With meta-analysis [185]) andseveral randomizedstudies lasting Uto12months0treatmentthatevaluatedtheeffectOframelteon01insomnia. 187-198 In that meta-analysis, Kuriyama and colleagues 185 reported13 studies involving5,800 patientsWithisomniaOI insomniasymptomsWithahaveragefollow-UP duration Of 38 days. RamelteonWaSassociatedwith reduced sleep latency (a weighted average difference Of4.30 minute [95% CI,7.01to  1.58]) and improved sleepquality, but Was not associated with subjective IST increase-Ramelteon has also been associated with improving persis-tent sleep latency (time from lights Off to the first sleeplasting at least 10minutes), improving sleep efficiency, andobjective TSI。
Drwg interactions, contraindications, and Side effects:When co-administered with ramelteon, fluvoxamine (strongCYPIA2 inhibitor ) significantly increased the concentrationand half-life When compared with ramelteon administeredalone. Thus, ramelteon and Huvoxamine Should not be CO-administered. Ramelteon should be administered with cau-tion讧patients taking other CYPIA2 inhibitors (suchaSciprofloxacin ), as Wellas CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as ketoco-nazole ), and CYP2Cg inhibitors (such as fluconazole )。
This medicine should not be used by pregnant Women asthereare10adequateand Well-controlled studies underthese conditions. The use of this medicine in women Who are
breastfeeding is also not recommended. Similarly, the use oframelteon is not recommended i children and adolescentsdue to the lack of studies focused on these populations。
The Iost common adverse events seen With ramelteonwith at least one difference in incidence With 2% placebo;were sleepiness (5% Versus 3% placebo ); dizziness (5% Versus3% placebo), and fatigue ( 4% versus 2% placebo). AlthoughVery rare, there are reports Of serious allergic reactions suchas angioedema With the use of ramelteon.
Other Considerations: 1 ) Toxicity and relatively Iow abusepotential compared with other hypnotic agents 199; 2) Evi-dence Of safety With more prolonged use and no evidence ofrebound insomnia in 12-month-use studies 189; 3) Safety 讥older patientsand patientswithcomorbiditiessuchaSchronic obstructive pulmonary disease(COPD)200,201andmild to moderate OSA,202 without worsening their severities(including hypoxemia )。
Exogenous melatonin has been marketed fOr ~30 years,beingachronobiotic suitable for circadian Ihythmdisorders:.205 However, melatonin has erroneously become one Ofthe most used substances in the World to induce sleep .206
Mechanism af action: Endogenous melatonin and exoge-nOUS melatonin act on the sleep-wakeby stimulatingthe MTI receptor (attenuating the alert signal in the supra-chiasmatic nucleus) and the MT2 receptor (synchronizingthe circadian Clock ).203,204Cycle
Available presentations: Exogenous melatonin isIarketed in Various presentations i the forms of immediate-release tablets (2 mg, 3 mg, 5m8, and 10mg), sublingual usetablets (0.21 mg)and drops (0.21 mgldrop ), and the moleculeisavailable  forformulationin compounding pharmacy。marketing in the form Of(0.21 mgldrop and 0.20m816drops) has been approved in Brazil。drops
In oralimmediate-release formulations, exogenous mela-toninreachesmaximunplasmaconcentration讥~50minutes and bioavailability is low and Variable. Metabolismis hepatic by thesystem and excretion is urinary. Thehalf-life is ~60 minutes ( 40 minutes2 hours207,2080450
Patientassessthent:Thereis10consistentevidencesupporting melatonin use to treat insomnia in healthy Voungadults. Although evidence is not robust, melatonincan beindicated inthe managementofinsomnia in olderadults andChildrenWithautistic spectrumdisorder。Melatoninhas
