cOgnitive-emotional and cortical stimulation; sympatheticactivation, and increased risk Of systemic arterial hyperten-Sion, cardiovascular events, diabetes, significantly increasedmorbidity and mortality, neurocognitive impairment andseemingly responding better to treatment. 20,36
PSG limitations to diagnose insomnia lie i the fact thatsingle night of sleep may be insufficient to detect its diagno-Sis, as somepatients' sleep parameters may Worsen in thefirst PSG night (frst night effect), whereas others may havethemimproved for changing their usualenvironment, sleep-ing better at the laboratory. Moreover, there are Variabilitiesbetween nights With insomnia.20,26,27
However, actigraphy is not a tool to diagnose insomnia. Imust be used in combination with other clinicalinformationpatient's history, and occasionally with PSGto obtainthorough perspective Of the sleep problem.37
Differential Diagnosis and Insomnia ComorbiditiesInsomnia can be comorbid with other sleep problems suchasOSA, circadian rhythm disorders; periodic limb movements;andrestless leg syndrome/Willis-Ekbomdisease。Carefulclinicalassessments provide precise diagnosesandthe38most adequate intervention approaches。FFig. 3 schema-tizes differential diagnoses per type Of insomniaWhichhowever, may be insomnia comorbidities.39
Insomnia may be a Tisk factor tor OI a condition comorbidwith clinical diseases and psychiatric disorders. Such clinicalconditions include cardiovascular diseases; systemic arterialhypertension;type2diabetes;obesity,andchronic12,40-42Apossible explanation for sucha riskis thatchronicisomnia changes the levelsofinflammatory mediators: 43 Asforpsychiatric disorders, insomnia can be comorbid and havedirectionalcorrelation with major depressive disorder;, possiblyprecedinga depressive episode and aggravating its Progress andthe response to treatment. Conversely, depression also nega-tivelyaffects insomnia. Moreover,itis often comorbid with Post-traumatic stress disorder and anxiety disorders. Another im-portant aspect is that insomnia increases the Iisk Of suicide;especially in individuals With an evening chronotype. 44,45pain。
Various authors have proposed theoreticalmodels to explainthepsychological phenomenon Of insomnia and understandsleep patternsand complaints associatedWith isomnia
disorder. They mostly explainOrapproachIorei-depthfactors involvedin the etiology Of insomnia described bySpielman and colleagues i the 3P model. 46 Based on thismodel, CBT-Iexplains the vicious cycle of insomnia perpet-uated by the impairment of the homeostatic sleep pressure;the disorganization Of the circadian Ihythm, and the Wake-fulness conditioned by associations between the environ-ment, cognitive and somatic excitability, and dysfunctionalbeliefs and thought patterns about sleep. Using techniquesderivedfronthe cognitive and behavioral approachandpractices to promote relaxation, 47,48 the literature has docu-mentedwell CBT-I's effectiveness in treating insomnia cO-morbid with medicalandpsychiatric conditions: 47,49 Hence;i is considered the first line of treatment to address chronicinsomnia.50-52 Other CBI-I settings and modalities havebeen proposed to increase its dissemination, including Vid-eoconference or phone calls, messages in virtual chat roomsOI e-mail,bibliotherapy, self-guided books, and digital plat-forIs. 52-54Moreover;othernon-pharmacologicalapproaches have been developed and tested independentlyOr combined with CBT-I, suchas interventions based01and mindfulness techniques. 56,57ACT5s
Ihls chapter alms to recommend the approaches With thehighest levelof scientific evidence for clinical outcomes andfollow-up, considering objective parameters assessed withPSG and actigraphy and subjective ones obtained from sleepdiaries and questionnaires that assess the severity Of insom-nia symptoms and the quality Of sleep, especially ISI andPSQI, respectively。
CentralCBT-I componentsinClude  psychoeducationandsleep hygiene; stimulus control, sleep restriction technique;cognitive therapy, cognitive restructuring; and relaxationtechniques. 48,58 They generally take four to eight sessions;lasting 60to 90minutes0haverage. 57,59 Thelower theintervention frequency and duration, the fewer the techni-ques让includesamongWhich   sleeprestrictionandstimulus controlare themostused.Table11presentsotherCBT-Iapplicationmodalitiesdescribed讧theliterature. 54,59-66
Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT)ACT belongs to the third wave of Behavioral Psychology andaims tOdevelop psychological flexibility (i.e, the capacity torespond in an adapted Way to life challenges with an ampleawareness Of and engagement in personal Values) throughsix main processes: acceptance, defusion, being present, selfas context, Values, and committed action. 67
ACIhasbeen recently testedt0treat insomhia eitheralone or in combination with CBT-I behavioral components;such as stimulus control and sleep restriction. 68 Both inter-ventions approachtheSix processesthatmakeItheconstruct Of psychological flexibility。
