systematic reviewWith meta-analysis gathered datafrom 2,271 patients from4 RCIs,showing that 50 mg ofdaridorexantWassuperior to placebo for the four efficacyoutcomes, including WASO, sleep latency, subjective ISTandInsomnia Daytime Symptomsand Impacts Questionnairedomain score. Furthermore, there were no significant differ-ences in adverse events between daridorexant and place-bo.174 Daridorexant is effective and safe for the treatment Ofinsomnia When compared with placebo。
Drug interactions, contraindications, and Side eftects:Ihe most common side effects are sleepiness, fatigue; head-ache; and nasopharyngitis。
Lemborexantis a new DORA used for the treatment of adultsand older people with insomnia, characterized by sleep-Onset andlormaintenance  diffculties。 LemborexantWasapproved in 2019 for use in the United States, Japan, andCanada。
Available presentations: Lemborexant is available as 5and 10mg oral tablets. 175
Patient assessment: It is indicated for the treatment ofsleep-onset and sleep-maintenance insomnia in adults andolder people. Use for children, adolescents, Pregnant women,Orduring breastfeeding is not recommended. 175
Therapeutic planning: The recommended dose is 518administered at bedtime, at least 7 hours before the plannedWake-up time. The dosage may be increased to 10 mg basedon clinical response and tolerability。
Expected outcomes: In randomized, double-blind, Place-bo-controlled studies and objective and subjective assess-ments, lemborexant 5 18 and 1018 provided efficacy withminimal residual sleepiness the following morning in adultand older participants with insomnia. Individuals treatedWith lemborexant experience improvement讥all sleepparametersie.reduced sleep-onset latency, increasedsleep efficiency, and increased TST when compared withplacebo. The benefits are observed at dosages Of 5m8 and10mg from the firstweek ofuse and maintained for 12continuous months Of treatment. 176,177
Roth and colleagues evaluated changes in insomnia sever-ity in 949 individuals with moderate to severe insomnia (ISISCOIe15) treatedfor12monthswithboth dosagesOflemborexant. It reduced the severity Of insomnia (reduction>7points in ISI), WhichWas maintained at the end of theanalysis for 12 months, Versus placebo. 178
There Is ho evidence of rebound isomnia Or Withdrawalafter stopping 12months Of treatment. Furthermore;10deaths oI falls were recorded. No suicidal tendencies, suicid-
al ideation, suicidal behavior, Or self-injurious behavior arereported With Up to 12 months Of treatment. 179
In a randomized, double-blind study of 1,006 Participants55 yearsOr older With insomnia, Rosenberg andcolleaguesfoundthat lemborexant therapy significantlyimproved both sleep latency and maintenance comparedobjectively via PSG with placebo and extended-release zol-pidem treatment (6.2518). Therapy with51g and 101glemborexant Was welltolerated in older adults and proved tobe effective, especially in the last halfof the night, comparedWith placebo. Benefits for sleep onset and maintenance werealso observed from the beginning of treatment and main-tained throughout treatment for 30 days.180Also i olderpeople; the use Of lemborexant led to significant increases inthe percentage Of rapid eyemovement (REM) sleep andSignificant reductions 讧baseline latencyt0REM sleepcompared with placebo and zolpidem. 180 These findingsSuggest that Lemborexant may modify some Of the changesinsleep architecture normally observed in older people withinsomnia. 181Bed
Drwg interactions, Contraindications, Side effects: Theeffective half-life is 17-19 hour and reachesconcentra-tion讥21to3 hourItis predominantly eliminated viaCYP3A-mediatedmetabolismandthe major metabolitesarephysiologically inactive. 175,182 ConcomitantUSeWithCYP3A inhibitors (itraconazole; clarithromycin, fluconazole;Verapamil,and ranitidine) increases bioavailability and max-imum concentration and risk of adverse reactions. Concomi-tantUSe WithaCYP3A inducer (rifampin, carbamazepine;modafinil)decreaseslemborexant exposure;Whichmayreduce effcacy. The association with alcohol increases themaximum concentration and bioavailability Of lemborexant;increasing the sedative effect and adverse reactions. SleepOnset may be delayed i administered concomitantly with Orafter ameal. The 5n8 dosage is recommended in cases Ofmild and moderate hepatic insufficiency and is contraindi-cated in severe hepatic insuffciency。peak
Doses of5 Ig and especially 101g lemborexantwerebeneficial for the treatment of patients With insomnia, beingwell tolerated。Adverse effectsare considered mildandmoderate, the most common being sleepiness, nasopharyng-itis; and headache. 176 Sleepiness is the most common ad-Verse reaction reported in 5% Or more Of patients (10% for10m8 lemborexant Versus 7% for 5 mg lemborexant and 1%for placebo). 182
AdVersereactionsConsideredUncomlon(iCidence2%)weresleep paralysis (1.6% and1.3%for 10mg and5 mg, respectively ), hypnagogic hallucinations (0.7% and 0.1%Of patientsWho received101g and51g, respectively),compared withno reports Of patients receiving placebo。Although rare; complex behaviors during sleep have beenreported With the Use Of lemborexant at a dose Of 10 18.182
1 ) DORAsare notavailable in Brazil, sofar, butare expected tobe launched. 2 ) Like most data and studies presented in thisguideline; Very rare studies evaluated patients with comor-bidinsomnia。Therefore;cautionShouldbetaken讥
