Performance; as long as the dosages and guidelines estab-lished for itsUSewererespected. However, the quality 0most studies Was low or unclear. 138 There are tWO RCTsOnecompared the effectiveness Of zopiclone with zolpidem andthe other, with eszopiclone; demonstrating that both sub-stances were effective idecreasing sleep latency and j-creasing TST and sleep efficiency, respectively.139,140
Drug interactions, contraidications; atd Side eljects:The bindingofzopiclone to plasma proteins is weak and non-Saturable; therefore; the risk Of drug interactions is verySmall.Reducing the dose ofzopiclone is necessary When usedconcomitantly with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, suchas eryth-romycin and ketoconazole. The opposite Was also observedWith rifampicin, carbamazepine; phenobarbital, phenytoin,and St.John's wort, drugs thatinduce CYP3A4, decreasingtheaction Of racemic zopiclone by 80%. Ethanol should not beconsumed concomitantly with zopiclone due to the risk Ofparasomnia suchassleepwalking; food intake; telephoneCalls, and amnesia,讥 addition to increasing the sedativeeffect Of zopiclone。
ThIs medicine should not be used by pregnant Womenas therearen0 adequate and well-controlled studies inthese conditions。TheUSeOf this medication iwomenWho are breastfeeding is also not recommended. Likewise;theuSe Of zopiclone in children and adolescents ishotrecommended。
Very common adverse events10%): bltter taste; COI-Ion Ones (>1% and10%): dizziness, headache; residualsleepiness;mouth, dyspepsia,nausea。 NightmaresOrinappropriate behaviors suchA5ssleepwalkingwere rarelyrecorded。dry
Mechanism af action: Eszopiclone, an S-enantiomer of race-mic zopiclone; is a nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic agent fromthe cyclopyrrolone family. 1,128 After oraladministration, itisrapidlyabsorbedandreachesmaximumconcentration(Tmax) 讧~1 hour。 It hasahigh affnity for the a-1,0-3and &-5 subunits Of the GABA-A receptor. 142,143
Available presentations: Eszopiclone is available in BrazilaS2and318coatedtablets。The 1m8 presentationisexpected to arrive soon, Which could be attractive for olderpatients。
PatientQssessthent: Duet0itsIechanismOf actioneszopiclone is indicated for adult patients with acute, onsetandlor maintenance insomnia。
Therapeutic plannig: The recommended administrationis one tablet only when going to bed (considering that thepatient must adopt a regular pattern in the timesg0 tobed and get UP ). Alwaysto start With the lowest dosage。Intermittent dosingOI "treatmentasneeded" may bea1alternative to the treatment. 143theytrV
ExpectedOutcolles:Thereare alreadynumeroUsRCIstudies and two meta-analyses. The first reviewed 14 RCIsWith 4,732 participants and demonstrated that eszopiclonereducedsleeplatencyby12 minutesandWASOby17 minutes, helping increaseIST byat least30 minute;increasing sleep efficiency and improving functioning thenextWhen compared with placebo.142,143 This effect Wasobserved in differentage groups (3 mg being administered toadults and2 mg to older adults) and in different types Ofisomnia,includingcomorbidconditions。TWOG-Ionthstudies indicated that therapeutic benefitscan bemain-tained for prolonged periods. 145,146day-
Adosage of 1mg ofeszopiclone is enough to reduce sleeplatency and increase sleep efficiency. However, only with3 mg Was there a significant difference in WASO, number OfWakes, and Wake-Up time (with PSG) When compared withplacebo. 147Astudy iaJapanese population observedstatistical difference With a dosage Of 2 1g.148
Ihe most recent meta-analysIs, ton 2019, brought tO-gether 6 RCTs involving 2,809 patients With insomnia disor-der and concluded that eszopiclone is an effective and Safetherapeutic option, especially for older patients. EszopicloneWas associated with significant improvements in subjectivesleep latency, WASO, number of wakes; IST, increasing sleepquality, ability to function, daytime alertness, and sense Ofphysical well-being in studieswith follow-UPs Of1week;1462weeks,1month, 3 months, and6 months。Roth andWalsh described the same results, but With follow-ups Of14912 months, the last 6 months being an open study。
Drvg interactions, contraindications; Side eljects: ESZO-Picloneis weakly bound to plasma proteins. The high fractionOf free drugs in plasma suggests that its distribution is notaffected by interactions With other medications related tobinding to these proteins. Eszopiclone didnot show anyinhibitory potential on CYP450 1A2,2A6,2C9,2C19,206,21Or 3A4A。
Reducing the dosage ofeszopiclone is necessary When usedconcomitantly with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoco-nazole. The opposite was also observed with rifampicin, a drugthat induces CYP3A4, decreasing the action Of racemic zopi-clone by 80%. Ethanol should not be consumed concomitantlywitheszopiclone due to a potentiation ofthe effect on psycho-Iotorperformance Up to 4 hours after Use. 143
This drug should not be used by pregnant Womenas thereare h0adequate and Well-controlled studies i these con-ditions. Its use in women Who are breastfeeding is also notrecommended. Likewise; the use ofeszopiclone in childrenand adolescents is not recommended.
common adverseevents (> 10%): Headache;andunpleasant taste; common ones (>1% and10%): sleepi-ness, dry mouth, Viral infection, dyspepsia, and nausea. 143Very
