BZDs' history began in 1955 With the discovery of chlordiaz-epoxideand讧1963with the launch Of diazepam。 Theexpectation Of aIeWVariety Of drugs withmore effectiveand safer psychic effects than the predominant barbituratesandopioids meant that BZDs dominated the neuropsycho-Pharmacology market from the 1960s and 1970s onwards。Ihe perception of medicalsociety about these drugs began tochange after thesecond half Of the 1970sandinto thefollowing decade due to side effects, mainly abuse, addiction,andaccidents. 152  Althoughtherehasbeenadecline讧prescription ithe past 20 years, 153 BZDsremain POpU-1ar153-155 Withnew formulations emerging as recreationaldrugs, the so-called designer BZDs. 156
Mechanism af action: Ihey act as allosteric agonists ofGABA-A typeAreceptorsi.e,bindto theSamereceptor, but in different GABA sites, facilitating the effect0fthe agonist neurotransmitter. Ihis effect is predominantlyin postsynaptic neurons, Where there is a cellular influx Ofchloride leading to neuronal hyperpolarization. BZDs dem-onstrate different effects depending on the a subunits thatmake UP the GABA-A receptor and their locationsi thedifferent GABAergic pathways Of the central nervous system(CNS): anxiolytic; hypnotic; myorelaxant, amnesic; antiepi-leptic;and respiratory depressant 157Ithemesolimbicdopaminergic system, GABA inhibition in the ventral teg-mentalarea leads to an increase in the dopaminergic signal,resulting in a reward effect, Which is related to the mecha-nism Of abuse and dependence. 158they
Available presentations: Several BZDS are SOld In Brazll。This study will evaluate those for outpatient use and aimingto treat isomniathus, only oral and sublingual tabletPresentations and drop bottles will be mentioned. Those forinjectable hospital use; intravenously and intramuscularly,will not be listed, as wellas the presentations absent in OUIcountry, nasal spray and rectalThe BZDs analyzed werebromazepam (3 mg; 6mg oral tablets and 2.5 mg/mL solu-tion), diazepam (51g and 10oral tablets ), clonazepam(0.25 mg sublingual tablets,0.5 mg oral tablets,21g and2.5 mg/mL solution ), alprazolam (0.25 mg, 0.5m8, 1mg and218 oral tablets ), midazolam (7.5mg and 15mg oral tab-lets ), flunitrazepam(118oral tablets), estazolam (oraltablets 2 mg), furazepam (30mg oral tablets ), nitrazepam(518 oral tablets ), clobazam ( 1018 and 20 ng oral tablets)and lorazepam (1 mg and 2 mg oral tablets ). It is noteworthythat temazepam is the only BZD indicated for the treatmentgel。"g
0f insomnia according to the AASM guidelines,'9 not avail-able in Braziland for this reason not included in this BrazilianSuideline。
Patient assessment: Due to their Iechanism Of action,BZDs have hypnotic potential for onset, maintenance; andearly morning awakening insomnia. However; the risks 0abuse; dependence and withdrawal, intoxication, enhance-ment Of other substances with a hypnotic effect, accidents;and deathmean that they are not drugs Of choice for thetreatment Of insomnia. 105-107
Therapeutic planig: Only in cases of insomnia COIOI-bid with diseases Of which BZDs are treatment options (e.8.epilepsy, some psychiatric and sleep disorders) is it possibletO seek their therapeutic hypnotic effect according to theclinical standard. It is not recommended to use a benzodiaz-epine for more than 4 weeks as almost halfofpatients usingitdaily for more than a month can develop dependence 161 Inearly-night insomnia, BZDs Witha Short and intermediatehalf-life (alprazolam; flunitrazepam, estazolam, midazolamand bromazepam) are usually more used, with those withprolonged effect duration (clonazepam, diazepam, and flur-azepam) being options for cases Of maintenance and early-morning insomnia. Sublingual administration presentationscan beahoption for early-night insomniaas i is a fasterabsorptionroute thanOral。One difficulty regardingtheduration Of the drug's effect is that some of them have activemetabolites, such as alprazolam and diazepam. 159,160,162,163Furthermore; short-acting BZDs present3greater risk Ofabuse by users. 159,160,162,163 It is noteworthy that the optionis also linked to the disease that primarily requires the Use 0髻benzodiazepine。
Expected Outcomes: Thereare nO recent Sstudies WithaSufficient levelof evidence for BZDs marketed in Brazil to berecommended for the treatment of insomnia。
Drvg interactions; contraindications, and Side eljects:Drugs that interfere with CYP3A4 may influence the metab-Olism of BZDs. The main pharmacological interactionsareWith phenothiazines, opioids, barbiturates, monoamine oxi-dase inhibitors, antidepressants With hypnotic effects, andalcohol and illicit drugs. Interactionmay alsoOCCUIWithSoIe foods, grapefruit, St. John's Wort, and KaVa.164
BZDs can exacerbate symptoms such as respiratory depres-Sion, incoordination and imbalance, behavioral changes, andsleepiness. Therefore; the use Of this pharmacological class isnot recommended in patients with myasthenia gravis, ataxicSyndrome; OSA, chronic respiratory failure; CNS depressantintoxication, angle-closure glaucoma, older people presentingagitation, OI patients in delirium. The use Of BZDs by pregnantand breastfeeding Women is also not recommended. 164ulations Withpsychiatric comorbidities are those at greatestrisk Ofabuse and dependence. 160,161PoP-
The most common Side effects are sleepiness, lethargy,fatigue, daytime sleepiness, impaired attention and concen-trationl, amnesia, abuse; dependence and withdrawal, hypo-tonia;andataxia。Falls,fractures;accidents,memoryimpairment, and a greater risk Of paradoxical reactions canOcCUI in older people. 162,163
