conducted by Nicasio and colleagues, 104 tested progressiverelaxationand neurobiofeedback with electrodes in thefrontalregion, Versus simulated neurobiofeedback (placebo) i40adult patients. Relaxation and neurobiofeedback led to signif-cant reductions in both self-reportedlatency and de-Pressive symptomatology. However, this result did not showsignifcantdifferences When compared with the controlgroup,suggesting a potential placebo effect. 104Asimilar result Ofpotential placebo effect was observed in a double-blind studyi patients With primary insomnia. 105Arecent randomizedstudy by Kwan and colleagues 106 suggested that a neurofeed-back protocol was comparable in efficacy to CBT-I, but theSmall sample size precludes any conclusions in this regard。sleep
Physicalexercise;With emphasis01aerobic practice,iscited as an adjuvant therapy in the treatment of insomniaespecially as it is associated With increased energy expen-diture; promoting well-being; facilitating weight loss, andimprovingmo0dandcognition。However;tOdate;fewrandomized studies have tested the effect Of physical exercise on insomnia. 115-117 One Of the studies tested amoni-tored program Of at least 150 minutes Of physical exercisePerweek;Of moderate intensity (brisk Walking;讥thechosen environment for at least 30minutes perOn atleast 5 days Of the week), for 6months。At the end of thefollow-up, the physical exercise grOUp showed an averagereduction Of 4 points in the ISI.115 More recently, Baron andcolleagues showed that moderate to vigorous aerobic train-for 12weeks also improved the severity Of insomniasymptoms. 116Ianotherinvestigation, ZhangandCOlleagues compared aerobicexercise threetofve timesweek With implementingabalanced diet andwith101-treatment for 6 months i 72 patients With insomnia. 117Both physical exercise and diet improved sleep quality andreducedobjective sleep latencyand sleep efficiency讥relation to the baseline period. 117 However; no signifcantdifferenceswereShowncomparedWiththecontrol117grOUPday;lng
EvidenceOn resistance exerciseOI strength exercise iseVen SCaICer,although it suggests a benefit in objective and118subjective parameters in patients With chronic insomnia。Meta-analyses point to safety and some favorable effects Oninsomnia symptomatology; however,also reportincon-sistencies and significant quantity and quality limitations 0the studies. 119,120they
Mind-body techniques include meditative Practices, Voga,Iai Chi, qigong, and so forth. Ihese are ancestral practicesthat aimto trainthe mind, especially attention, throughcontemplation, body movement, andlor posture; focused onbreathing to integrate mind and body. In general, studies OntheeffectOf these techniques involve practiceswithfrequency Of one to three timesaweek (60-120 minutesper session) for 12 or more Weeks. 57
Although some studies evaluating the effect of PracticingYoga and Tai-chi pointto improvements in sleep quality, someparameters Of sleep architecture; 57,121-124andpsychiatricsymptoms; 124 the evidence is Very limited duetO studiesWith small samples, relatively short follow-Up, high responseheterogeneity, and the lack Of standardized techniques。
However,some studies haVe indicated that mind-bodyapproaches, including mindfulness practices, improve dose-dependent sleep quality (PSQI) (i.e, the longer the practice;the greater the effect on sleep quality or decreased excitabil-ity ) .57,86,96 These results indicate that such approaches canbe adopted as preventive practices for insomnia in healthyand clinicalpopulations,57,124 and can be adjuvants to CBT-Iwith or Without comorbidity。
Aromatherapy is a therapeutic approach based on theciple that substances that make up the aroma ofessentialoilsrelease particles capable Of generating favorable stimuli tobrainareas related to emotions, helping totreat symptoms ofanxiety, depression, and insomnia, among other medicalandpsychological conditions. Preliminary studies limited toafew patients and short follow-up suggest that aromatherapy(mainlyusing lavender) may have benefits on sleep qualityinpatients With mild forms Of insomnia. 125-127Prin-
Ihe pharmacologicaltreatment ofinsomnia today consists otseVeral classes Of medications With different mechanisms ofaction, sometimes specifc to a certain type Of insomnia. Asdetailed below, some classes have greater scientific supportfOrsafety and efficacy While others lack greater scientificevidence and are often used "Off-label " In this guideline; wewill divide the classes into the iems presented below。
Selective Benzodlazepine Receptor Agonists andBenzodiazepines
Selective Benzodiazepine Receptor Agonists (Zdrugs)Selective BZD receptor agonists marketed so far in BrazilZolpidem, zopiclone;and eszopicloneconstitute3Classapproved for the treatment of insomnia, acting as hypnotics.
Mechanism af action: hypnotic agentofthe imidazopyridineclass, acts on the al subunit of type A gamma-aminobutyricacid (GABA) receptors. 128,129 Immediate-release presenta-tions have a short half-life (0.5-3.5 hours ), with peak plasma
