Pregabalinis approved byANVISAfOrthe treatmentOtneuropathic pain, as anadjuvant in the controlof focal-onsetepileptic seizures With or Without secondary generalization;generalized anxiety disorder, and adult fibromyalgia。
Mechanism of action: Pregabalin is an enantiomer analOgOUSt0GABAWithamechanismOf actionsimilart0gabapentin。NoRCIS0far has assessed this medicationfocused on the specific study Of chronic insomnia。
Expected outcomes: There are no controlled PregabalinStudies for chronic insomnia。Asystematic review Of gaba-pentin and pregabalin, also called a-delta ligands OIpentinoids, for bipolar disorder; generalized anxiety, andinsomnia showed inconclusive results讥 relationt0Outcomes for insomnia. This review shows that a-delta ligandsappeartoimprove sleep in patients With insomnia associatedWith clinical conditions suchaSanxiety and neuropathicHowever, it is unclear Whether improvement occurs bydirect orindirect sleep effects. There is moderate evidence ofgabapentinoid effcacy in anxiety states and minimal evi-dence in bipolar disorder and insomnia. 256gaba-pain。
Cannabinoidsare compounds found in Cannabis SP。Since2019,ANVISAhas allowedthe registration, importation;marketing;and prescription讧thenational territory0products derived from cannabis。
Mechanism af action: Ihere are100 phytocannabinoidsin Cannabis Sp. Preclinicaland clinicalstudies were done onlywith Cannabidiol (CBD) and Delta-g-tetrahydrocannabinol(THC):Therefore;WedonotKnOWtheactionOf othercannabinoidsOn human sleep, besides thetWO describedabove. CBD has a biphasic actioni promotes alertness ilower doses and sedation in higher ones. Acute THC admin-istration reduces sleep latency, and chronic administrationincreases sleep fragmentation, WASO, and probably reducedREM sleep。
AVailable presentations: 18 cannabinoids have been CU[rentlyapproved(ANVISA'sJointBoarddecisions10327/2019 and10。335/2020). Cannabinoids in Brazil haveseveral presentations: CBD alone (20 mg/mL to 200 mglml);extractscontaining CBD/THC (0.2% or 0.24% THC); oI canna-bisextractscontainingmedicinalcannabinoidswithoutspecifications。
Patient assessmment: Therearen0 scientific guidelines,even though cannabinoids have been used for the treatmentOf insomnia With Or Without comorbidities。
Therapeutic planning:NoqualitystudyS0farhasaddressedtheireffectivenessand   safetyto guidetheposology。
ExpectedOutcomes: To date; thereare three systematicreViewsWith meta-analysis andsome randomized studieslasting UP to 8weeks Of treatment that evaluated the effectofcannabinoids on insomnia. 257-260 A meta-analysis with 219adult patients With insomnia; evaluating objective (PSGOIactigraphy) and subjective outcomes, showed that the use Ofcannabinoid; CBD,and THC-analogous extracts, improved PSQIsleep quality by Up to 8 weeks.259 Another meta-analysis; withmore than 5,000 patients, evaluated the impact Of differentcannabinoids on patients withcomplaints under Variousmedical conditions。It found thatadiscreet proportionOfpatients reported an improvement in sleep complaints com-pared with placebo after the use Of cannabinoids, especially inthe"cancer"patient subgroup. 257Inthe studies describedabove; it is not known Whether the improvement ofinsomniastems from anxiolytic effects (CBD ), painkillers (4 g-TC), oradirect effect on CNS pathways that help regulate sleep. Iherearealsoother ongoing studies (for example NCT0534170,NCTO5041647,NCT05237037https: //clinicaltrials.gov/二that can help improve evidence in the upcoming years. 261sleep
Drvg interactions, contraindications, andl Side eljects:Small clinical safety studies were performed only with CBDand CBD/THC extracts. 262 CBD and9-TC are metabolizedin the liver and use the cytochrome p450 pathway and mayinteract With Various drugs that use the same pathway, aswell aspatients With liver failure. Concomitant use Of CBDWith Valproate increases transaminase levels and the riskofhepatotoxicity, as Well as clobazam (with reciprocal inter-action). CBD inhibits the enzyme responsible for its degra-dation by increasing its half-life by2times。 CBDUSeisassociated With frequent though mild to moderate andlimitedadverseevents,suchas  sedationy epigastralgia,diarrhea, and increased transaminases. THC use; 讥turn,induces known pleiotropic effects, such as sedation in smalldoses, euphoria, andevenpsychotic outbreaks with highdoses, Which can lead to abuse and abstinence. Regardingother phytocannabinoids and synthetic cannabinoids, theirmechanisms of action are still not well understood,as wellaStheirinteractions,contraindications,andSideeffects.Selfdrug
Mechanist af action: Valerians Iost Iikely Iechanisnl ofactioninvolves anagonist role Of GABA-Areceptors, probablydue to GABA's relatively high content in Valerian extracts. 263Recent research also points to adenosine receptor activity asthemain contributortoits relaxing and sleep-inducingeffects。
Available presentations: It can be found 讥 capsules OItabletsOIcompounding presentations containing Valerianextracts50 to 10018)。
Patient assessment: Therearen0 scientific guidelines,even though valerian is used to treat insomnia symptoms。
