Orexins Or hypocretins are hypothalamic neuropeptides thathave a role in regulating the sleep-wakeand maintain-ing Wakefulness. 165 The orexin/hypocretin system is consid-ered a target for the treatment of insomnia。cycle
Suvorexant Was the first DORAapproved for the treatmentofinsomnia. 166
Mechanist aj action: SuVorexant Is DORA that Promotessleep through selective antagonism Of the OXIR and OX2Rorexin receptors. Its half-life isC12 hours and the time toreachthe maximum concentration ( Tmax)is ~1 to 2 hours (讴ingested on an empty stomach) and ~3 hours (with food).
Available presentations: Suvorexant is available i thefollowing doses: 5,10,15,and 20 mg oral tablets。
Patient assessment: It Is Indicated to treat Sleep-onsetand maintenance insomnia i adults and older adults。
Therapeutic plannig: According to the American Foodand Drug Administration (FDA), the recommended dose is10mg taken once at night, 30 minutes before going to bedand at least 7 hours before the planned time to get Up thenext morning: The dose can be increased to up to 20 mgifthe10 mg doseis not effective; although welltolerated. The totaldaily dose should not exceed 20 mg per day. In patients usingmoderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, the maximum recommendeddose is 10 ng per day (starting with 518)。
Expected outcomes: As this Was the tirst DORA approved;more studies and systematic reviews exist On this medica-tion. 167,168OutcomesSuchA5ssleeponset latency;TSI,WASO reduction;maintenanceOf sleep architecture;aSwellaSglobal and patient clinical impression, have beensystematically evaluated with suvorexant i placebo-con-trolledtrials  involvingIorethan1,000  patients:. 168reviewthatincluded1,824 patientsusingsuvorexantrevealed   significant improvementin sleep;A5sassessedWith ISI When compared with the placebo group. Improve-ment in sleep (onsetlmaintenance ), as wellas a reduction inthe impact Of sleep problems on daytime function, contrib-uted to the overall improvement observed in the ISI totalscOTe.169Adouble-blind RCI conducted讥522 patientsaged > 18 years (322 used suvorexant Versus 162 placebo)fOr1year showed that patients Who received suvorexanthad subjective improvement in sleep latency and mainte-nance When compared With the placebo group. The percep-tion of improved sleep Was evident in the first week of sleepand Was maintained after1 year at the end Of it。Accordingto this study, suvorexant improves the perception Of sleepquality and the feeling Of morning Well-being; with no effectOn mood, and thereweren0 marked differences betweenthe groups i the occurrence Of adverse events. 170 Suvor-exantWaSalso evaluated讥patients With insomniaandProbable Alzheimer's disease; maintaining the same effica-cy and safety profile observed in studies in patients with170primary insomnia。
SuvorexantSignificantlyreducesSsleep-onset  latency;increases TSI, and decreases WASO,167 being effective andSafe compared with placebo。
Drwg interactions, contraindications, and Side effects:Accordingto the FDA, themost common adverse effectsinclude sleepiness, fatigue; and headache. Other less com-I01adverse effectsaremouth, coughing; increasedincidenceOf respiratorytract infections, and changes indream patterns. The riskofadverse effects is dose-dependentand appears to occur more frequently in women. There is nosignificantdifference between young people and olderadultsi Ielation to the risk of adverse effects。dry
When evaluating this drug in patients With insomnia, nOsignificant differenceswere observed 讥 the occurrence ofnarcolepsy symptoms, such as hypnagogic or hypnopompichallucinationsOI sleep paralysis。 Noeventssuggestive0二167cataplexy were observed.
MechanisThlof action: Daridorexantbindst00Proteln-coupled orexin (hypocretin) receptorsAandB topromoteWakefulnesslike theotherDORAs mentioned讧thissection. Hence, daridorexant suppresses excessive Vigilanceduring the sleep period by selectively targeting and blockingthe binding Of orexin neuropeptides to the two receptors. 171Its half-life is ~8 hour, and Tmax is ~1to 2 hour. The rapidabsorption Of daridorexant associated with its rapid elimi-nation allows a rapid onset Of action and maintenance Ofnighttime sleep, avoiding sleepiness the next morning。
Available presentations: Daridorexant Is avallable as 25and 5Omg oral tablets。
Patient assessmhent: It IS Indicated tor the treatment otinsomnia, sleep-onset, or maintenance difficulties in adultsand older adults。
Therapeutic planning: Daridorexant Was approved by theFDA for the treatment of insomnia in adults aged > 18 yearsidoses of 25to 5018, Witharecommendation forUSe30 minutes before bedtime; with this medication taking atleast 7 hours before the planned time to Wake Up。
Expected outcomes: The main randomized, Placebo-con-trolled study, lasting 52 weeks, showed that daridorexantWasgenerally safeandwell tolerated;Without inducingresidual morning sleepiness at the doses studied. One ofthe study results showed that daridorexant improved sleep-iness the next morning. Reports Of adverse events were rarein allgroups studied (active and placebo ). Narcolepsy Symp-toms were not reported by study participants, as monitoredfor all DORAs already approved for insomnia. Finally, thereWere nO Signs Of rebound insomnia Upon Withdrawal. 172 Insummary, it Was concluded that in patients With insomnia;daridorexant administered for U to1JearWaSgenerallySafe, WithnO Signs Of tolerance; physical dependence;OIrebound after withdrawal。
