Table 11CBT-I modalities: application formats and settings.
Abbreviations: CBT, Cognitive-behavioral therapy applied to insomnia.
fOI supplementaryUSe讧VarioUshealth interventionsincluding insomnia.
The mindfulness-based insomnia intervention Programencompasses mindfulness techniqueswithCBT-I compo-nents,70,71 aiming to change the relationship with psychoso-matic suffering associated With the condition and changedysfunctional thoughts and habits unfavorable to healthysleep; thus transforming reactive responses into adaptativeones and improving emotional management. 72
The decision for an intervention approach must consider thetherapeutic response after thetreatmentand follow-UP;resOUICeavailability, physical and mental health conditions,and the patient's openness and readiness to adhere to theproposed therapy. Since non-pharmacological interventionsdepend on the patient's active participation, different man-agements must be aligned to ensure their greater effective-ness and effciency。
Non-pharmacologicalInsonnlatreatmentsare usuallywell-tolerated;butmay requireSomeprecautions,and there may be some contraindications to applying themto older adultsfor instance; stimulus control and sleeprestriction mental changes pose a risk Of falls. 73they
Regarding insomnia phenotypes based on objective sleepduration, CBT-Iis less effective among patients With TST
hour than i those With TSI6 hour.75-77 Ihe recommenda-tion for the formeris to apply multicomponent CBT-Iassociated withmindfulness strategies and ACTto favor the autonomicmodulation promoted by somatic-cognitive hyperarousal. ItCanalsobe combined;at the clinician's discretion;Withpharmacotherapy to aid its management 78,79
Randomized studies and meta-analyses assessed the effectofmulticomponentCBT-I0sleep parameters andmentalhealth Of patients with chronic insomnia compared withactive and passive control conditions. The results Of multi-component CBT-I proved to decrease the severity of insom-niaandimprove the quality Of life, and subjective parametersOfsleep; particularly sleep latency; the number Of wakes;WASO, and sleep efficiency. 47,50,53,80-83Table 12 presentsthese effects and the ones measured with PSG.54,84
The effects of CBT-Ion increasing TST are evident in somestudies,Withsensitivityindicatedbythesleepdia-Iy50,62,64,66,83,85 and PSG,62,84 though With10 such corre-spondence in actigraphy analysis . 62 The effects Of CBT-Iaremore substantial on subjective than objective sleep param-eters,54,62suggesting greater sensitivity ofsubjective record-ings to detect the effect Of decreasing hyperarousal presentin insomnia, more reliably reflecting increases in TSI.62 It isworth pointing out that clinical outcomes are maintained infollow-ups Of 3 to 12 months. 47,80,83,86,87
When comparedWithcontrol conditions and isolatedCBT-I techniques; multicomponentCBT-Ihasalsobeenshown to improve daytime symptoms such as fatigue andsleepiness 80,88,89 as Wellas Symptoms Of anxiety, depres-sion, andlor stress 82,83,85,88,89 and dysfunctional beliefs andattitudes toward sleep. 63,82,85,86
Online and digital CBT-I services compared With controlconditions demonstrate improvement in subjective sleepparameters. 63,64,85,89,90Table12discriminatestheseeffects per CBT-I modality. Although Soh and colleaguesg0indicateagreater effect Of in-person CBT-I to reduce theseverity ofinsomnia and WASO compared with digital CBT-I,the clinical outcomes promoted by both modalities demon-strated post-treatmentand follow-up equivalence comparedWithi-personCBT-I.64,89Moreover;Arnedtand
