Do yoU have complaints related to ditticulty in falling asleep, ditticulty in staying asleep throughout the night, Or waking UPearly in the morning?
Have yoU treated for insomnia before? Did YoU receive any? How were the responses to treatment?
What time do YOU 90 to bed?
Do yoU do any activity in bed before going to sleep, such as watching television, reading, working, or eating?
Do yoU frequently Iook at the clock at night?
How long do you think YoU have been sleeping? How long do you think YoU Would need to sleep to teel better?What activities do yOU do before bed? Do yoU use devices that emit intense light: computers, tablets, cell phones?
Do yOU sleep better outside orin a place other than yoUT bed?
What time do you normally wake up in the morning? Do you usean alarm Clock, wake up spontaneously Ordoes someone WakeYOU Up?
How do yoU feel when YOU Wake Up (sleepy, tired)? Do YoUUp as soon as YOU Wake Up?get
Do yoU feel tired andlor sleepy during the day?
Do yoU have daytime and afternoon naps, whether Voluntary OTnot?
Do yOU practice physical activity? What time? How often?
Stress at work, personal or family life?
Room temperature;, brightness, noise level, ventilation?
Is there a television in the bedroom? Is this used when going to bed?
Do you experience tension When yoU see yoUr room at nightfall, worry about sleeping during thefear ofgoing to sleep?day
Do you have clinical illnesses,including those that involve pain?
What medications are used for sleep andlor clinical and psychiatric illnesses, as Wellas herbal medicines? Assess theirinterference With sleep。
Assess the presence of snoring, nightmares, bruxism, abnormal sleep behavior, and/or restlessness in the legs at the end oftheday:
Sleep Science2023. Brazilian Sleep Association. All rights reserved
ble 10 Medical history survey roadmap suggested for patients with insomnia.
What are the predisposing, precipitating, and perpetuating tactors?
yOU turn off the lights to 90 to sleep? How Iong do yoU think i takes to fallas
Do yoU experience impaired attention, concentration,and memory complaints?
sume substances with caffeine (coffee,tea, soda, chimarrao) andlor alcoholan
Do YOU consume illicit substances?
Reduced concentration, memory,attention, irritability, daytime drowsiness, fatigue, Iack ofenergy
S are used for sleep andlor clinical andpsychiatric illnesses, asas herbalsleep。welI
