Chronic insomnia disorder (simplitied in this document as insomnia) is an increasinglycommon clinical conditionisociety and3frequent complaint at the officesOfdifferent areas of health practice (particularly Medicine and Psychology). This scenariohas been accompanied by 3 significant evolution in treatment, as wellas challenges inapproaching patients in an appropriately way. This clinical guideline; coordinated bythe Brazilian Sleep Association and the Brazilian Association of Sleep Medicine andcounting on the active participation of various specialists in the area, encompasses anupdate on the diagnosis and treatment of insomnia in adults. To this end, it followed astructured methodology. Topics of interest related to diagnosis were written based ontheoretical framework, evidence in the literature, and professional experience. As forthe topics related to the treatment of insomnia,a Series ofquestions were developedbased on the PICO acronym (PPatient, problem,Orpopulation;Intervention;C -Comparison, control, or comparator; 0Outcome). The work groups defined theeligible options within each of these parameters. Regarding pharmacological inter-ventions, only the ones currently available in Brazil or possibly becoming available inthe upcoming years were considered eligible. Systematic reviews were conducted tohelp prepare the texts and define the level of evidence for each intervention. The finalresultis an objective and practical document providing recommendations with the bestscientific support available to professionals involved in the management of insomnia.
InsoInlaIs Characterized DyaIangeOf comnplalnts thatreflect dissatisfaction with the quality and quantity Of sleep。Nighttime symptoms or types Of insomnia include difficul-tiesfalling and remaining asleep and waking up too early inthemorning (i.e, before the desiredlplanned time), WhichCanfrequently coexist. They must occur at least three times aweek for at least three months to diagnose chronic insomniadisorder -Which, to facilitate and standardize; this study Willgenerically refer to aSinsomnia) 1 Daytime symptoms com-Prise this diagnosisandareconsequencesOf insomnia;namely: fatigue; decreased energy, attention, concentration,and memory; and mood changes, suchaSiritability and1dysphoria.' Sleep deprivation causes multiple consequencesto the quality Of life and is responsible for absenteeism anddecreased productivity, risk of accidents, and predispositiontO mental, cardiovascular; metabolic, and other disorders.2,3
I terms of Physiopathology, Isomnia Is often associatedwith hyper-alertness, in Which the autonomic nervous SVS-temis activated, increasing the adrenergic and hypothalam-ic-hypophysis-adrenal axis activity. However; it has beenquestioned whether such hyperarousal can be chronicallysustained, Whether it would be enough to cause insomnia OracombinationOf other factorsWouldbe necessary, andwhether i Would be better characterized by disinhibitionOI failure to inhibit wakefulness during sleep periods Ordisconnection between systems that should be connectedduring Wakefulness and connected during sleep (maladap-tiveconditioning) 4 (~Fig. 1 )
Spielman's 3Pmodel (predisposing; precipitating;andperpetuating factorsto understand chronic insomnia Sug
gests that geneticlepigenetic aspects and early stressarepredisposing factors; that affect individuals' brain function-and personality differences. 5 The growing prevalence Ofmood disorders can help precipitate Or worsen insomnia,2,3Which sharply increased with the COVID-19 pandemic;aSconfirmedbyVarious publications. 6-10 Precipitatingandperpetuatingfactorsencompassneurobiologicalsleepmechanisms, including homeostatic mechanisms, biologicaltimecontrollers(circadianIhythm ),andtheflip-flOp(switch) control model of the mechanisms i neuronal cellgrOUPcenters that promote sleep and Wakefulness。Thus,insomnia can be understoodas a lack Of control betweensleep-inducingmechanismsand   Wake-inducingmecha-nisms (wakefulness ), with a hyperactive alert system, hypo-active sleep system, Or both simultaneously. Hence; currenttheoreticalapproachesencompasscognitive-behavioralmodels, neurobiological models, and models that consider5both Simultaneously。(~Fig.1).ing
