cognitive-emotional and cortical stimulation, sympathetic activation, and increased risk of systemic arterial hypertension, cardiovascular events, diabetes significantly increase morbidity and mortality, neurocognitive impairment. It seems to respond better to treatment.

PSG limitations in diagnosing insomnia lie in the fact that a single night of sleep may be insufficient to detect its diagnosis; some patients' sleep parameters worsen on the first PSG night (first-night effect), whereas others improve due to changes in their usual environment, sleeping better at the laboratory. Moreover, there are variabilities between nights with insomnia.

Actigraphy is not a tool for diagnosing insomnia but should be used in combination with other clinical information and patient's history; occasionally with PSG to obtain a thorough perspective of the sleep problem.

Insomnia can coexist with other sleep problems such as OSA (obstructive sleep apnea), circadian rhythm disorders, periodic limb movements, restless leg syndrome/Willis-Ekbom disease. Careful clinical assessments provide precise diagnoses and appropriate intervention approaches. Fig. 3 schematizes differential diagnoses per type of insomnia which may include comorbidities.

Insomnia can be a risk factor for OSA (obstructive sleep apnea), conditions associated with various clinical diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, systemic arterial hypertension, type2 diabetes, obesity, chronic pain. Such clinical conditions increase the risk due to changes in inflammatory mediators levels: Insomnia may precede or aggravate major depressive disorder and can have a directional correlation; it may also worsen its progression and response to treatment. Conversely, depression negatively affects insomnia. Moreover, it is often comorbid with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and anxiety disorders. Another important aspect is that insomnia increases the risk of suicide, especially in individuals with an evening chronotype.

Various authors have proposed theoretical models to explain the psychological phenomenon of insomnia and understand sleep patterns associated with this disorder. They mostly focus on factors involved in the etiology of insomnia described by Spielman and colleagues (the 3P model). Based on this model, CBT-I explains the vicious cycle of insomnia perpetuated by impairment of homeostatic sleep pressure; disorganization of circadian rhythm, and wakefulness conditioned by associations between environment, cognitive and somatic excitability, dysfunctional beliefs, and thought patterns about sleep. Using techniques derived from the cognitive and behavioral approach and practices to promote relaxation, CBT-I has documented its effectiveness in treating insomnia comorbid with medical and psychiatric conditions; hence it is considered the first-line treatment for chronic insomnia.

Other CBI-I settings and modalities have been proposed to increase its dissemination, including videoconference or phone calls, messages in virtual chat rooms or e-mail, bibliotherapy, self-guided books, and digital platforms. Other non-pharmacological approaches have been developed and tested independently or combined with CBT-I such as interventions based on mindfulness techniques.

This chapter aims to recommend the approaches with the highest level of scientific evidence for clinical outcomes and follow-up, considering objective parameters assessed with PSG (polysomnography) and actigraphy and subjective ones obtained from sleep diaries and questionnaires that assess the severity of insomnia symptoms and the quality of sleep, especially ISI (Insomnia Severity Index) and PSQI (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index).

Central CBT-I components include psychoeducation and sleep hygiene; stimulus control, sleep restriction technique; cognitive therapy, cognitive restructuring; and relaxation techniques. They generally take four to eight sessions lasting 60-90 minutes on average.

Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) belongs to the third wave of Behavioral Psychology and aims to develop psychological flexibility through six main processes: acceptance, defusion, being present, self as context, values, and committed action. ACT has been recently tested to treat insomnia either alone or in combination with CBT-I behavioral components such as stimulus control and sleep restriction; both interventions approach the Six processes that make up the construct of psychological flexibility.